# Book-Store-Management-System

## Project Description:
Book Store Management System – is a program designed for managing a book store. Available books in the store is added to the system with price and quantity. These books can be sold to the customers by adding to the cart and later confirming by purchase. Total and average cost per book is mentioned. All books available in the store can be displayed with price and quantity. All books sold to the customer is stored in register and can be displayed with total and average cost per book.

## Tools:
* Java
* Swing

## Program Specification:
Book Store Management System – is a program designed for managing a book store.
Initially, there will be no books stored in the system. To add books to the system, book name, available quantity and price per book need to be entered in the bookNameField, quantityField and priceField respectively. Then, Add Books button need to be clicked to complete adding a book to the system. If any of the mentioned fields are missing values or entered format is wrong (i.e. entering string/double in quantityField etc.) then an error dialogue will open with appropriate message and after that some input fields will be restored and focus will be set on the field that had the error (i.e. if name entered correctly but quantity is entered wrong then after error message quantityField will be restored and focus will be set on quantityField). If book is added successfully, book name, available quantity and price per book will be displayed with appropriate header and success message in the textArea.
Secondly, if there are books available in the system, all available book name, available quantity and price per book can be displayed in the textArea by clicking Display All Books button. If no book is available in the system, then clicking the button will display an error dialogue with “No book available” message.
Thirdly, to add book to the cart, book name, available quantity and customer name need to be entered in the bookNameField, quantityField and customerNameField respectively. Then, Add to cart button need to be clicked to complete adding a book to the cart. Books can be searched case insensitively. Like previously, invalid or missing input will cause displaying error dialogue and input field to be restored. For example: If a book is not available in the system or if it is available but asking quantity is greater than available quantity will result in error. For successful input, book will be added to the cart and customer name, book name, quantity and price per book and success message will be displayed in the textArea. Please note that adding books to the cart does not mean books are purchased by the customer. Before purchasing books, all the books need to be added to the cart by the same customer name, concurrently. if customer name is edited before purchasing, all the books added to the cart will be restored.
To purchase all the books added to the cart Purchase button need to be clicked right after all the books are successfully added to the cart.  If any other operation like: Add Books, Display All Books, Display Register is occurred before purchasing, all the books added to the cart will be restored. Therefore, all books need to be added to the cart from the beginning. If customer name is edited before purchasing it will result in displaying an error message that customer name is invalid. To successfully purchase, correct customer name needs to be entered or cart need to restored all over from the beginning. After successfully purchase, a receipt including customer name, book name, purchased quantity, price per book, total charge (purchased quantity * price per book) of all the purchased books and total cost of all books and average cost per book by the customer will be displayed in the textArea. Available books quantity will get reduced after purchasing these. For example: If book store has 10 Harry Potter books. If Jack buys 4 then available quantity of Harry Potter will be 6. If Jones by the rest of 6 books then there will be no Harry Potter books in the store.
Lastly, to see the register of the book store Display Register button needs to be pressed. If no book is sold yet, error dialogue will be displayed with register is empty message. Else, all the books sold will be displayed one after one in the text area with book name, purchased quantity, price per book, total charge and lastly total cost of all books and average cost per book sold by the book store.
Exiting the program will display a thank you message.

**N.B:** 
1. GUI of the program is designed in Intellij IDE. BookStoreManagementSystem.form has the form design and BookStoreManagementSystem.java has the source code of the GUI Form. Running the program in any other IDE may distort the GUI.
2. bookNameField and quantityField are used for both Add Book and Add to cart operation. For example: for adding books to the system, book name, quantity and price will be taken, customerNameField will be ignored. Also, for adding books to the cart, book name, quantity and customer name will be taken, priceField will be ignored.
3. All the necessary code to run program is stored in BookStoreManagementSystem.java class. Book.java class is created to store book information like book name, available quantity and price per book. Customer class is used to store customer name and book information like book name, purchased quantity and price per book. ArrayList data structure is used to store available books in the store, added to cart books and customer purchase information.

